This audit is actually very useful because it shows the research architecture is largely built. I would not add another strategy family or redesign anything right now. The priority should be making the existing stack trustworthy and autonomous.

The biggest issue is that a research engine that silently stops collecting data is worse than having fewer strategies, because you can spend days thinking you're accumulating evidence when you aren't.

What I would do next

P0 — make the research pipeline reliable before touching strategy logic.

Verify and repair production schema
Confirm every required research table exists.
Confirm every ghost_observations IT column from db_mtf_schema_patch.sql exists in production.
Add a /research-health schema section showing:
expected columns
missing columns
table accessibility
last successful write
Do not silently swallow schema mismatches.
Keep schema changes out-of-band if that's your deployment pattern, but create one canonical migration/check script so Publish isn't guesswork.
Fix expired simulations contaminating evidence
EXPIRED, invalid, aborted, incomplete, or otherwise non-trade observations must not count toward:
trade count
PF
expectancy
win rate
promotion thresholds
Keep them in the DB for diagnostics, just exclude them from performance statistics.
Recalculate existing experiment statistics after the fix.

Change the dangerous learning-gate failure behavior

This is the one architectural choice in the audit I really dislike:

DB failure → LIVE_ELIGIBLE

For a trading system, research infrastructure failure should never grant permission that otherwise might have been denied.

Change it to something like:

DB/error/unknown → NO_RESEARCH_OPINION

Then preserve the normal trading system's existing eligibility rather than explicitly labeling the setup research-approved.

In other words, the research layer remains fail-open regarding blocking the existing strategy, but it must not manufacture evidence of approval.

Add the watchdog

Every research subsystem should expose:

last scan
last opportunity
last DB write
last closure
error count
observations today
closed observations today
engine enabled
engine healthy

Alert only on actual abnormal silence, not simply because there haven't been trades.

Then make it autonomous

After those four fixes, add one small Research Operations panel instead of more strategy UI.

It should basically say:

RESEARCH ENGINE

HEALTHY ✓

GRE: Running
SCALP: Running
FVG: Running
INTRADAY_TREND: Running

Observations today: 47
Closed: 13
Experiments validating: 6
Promising: 2
Ready for review: 1
Errors last 24h: 0
Last DB write: 23 sec ago

And underneath:

Needs Attention

ORB_CLOSE_RETEST_V3 — READY FOR REVIEW

That gets you much closer to what you've been wanting: the bot does the research while you focus on other things, and you only become involved when something genuinely deserves attention.

What I would not spend money on yet

Don't build the three missing scalp detectors yet. Don't tune the FVG thresholds. Don't add more variants. Don't change GRE promotion thresholds. Don't build another research engine. And don't auto-promote strategies to live trading.

You already have 20 GRE experiments + 16 scalp detectors + FVG sequencing + IT ghost research. That's more than enough surface area to discover something profitable. The bottleneck now is clean evidence and operational reliability, not a lack of ideas.

Once P0 is finished, let the system collect data. Then our next meaningful decision should come from the evidence: which strategies are actually making money, which gates help them, and which should be killed.

That is the direction I'd lock in rather than starting another branch of the project.